---
title: "Bank HTB"
date: 2021-07-16T17:30:30
categories:
  - study
tags:
  - Linux
  - HacktheBox
  - SUID
classes: wide
---
Bank is an easy rated box from HTB released in 2017. Check it [out!][htbboxlink]

[htbboxlink]: https://app.hackthebox.eu/machines/Bank

<h2> Enumeration</h2>
**Nmap scan results:**

```
22/tcp open  ssh     syn-ack ttl 63 OpenSSH 6.6.1p1 Ubuntu 2ubuntu2.8 (Ubuntu Linux; protocol 2.0)
53/tcp open  domain  syn-ack ttl 63 ISC BIND 9.9.5-3ubuntu0.14 (Ubuntu Linux)
80/tcp open  http    syn-ack ttl 63 Apache httpd 2.4.7 ((Ubuntu))
```

<h4>What is the scan telling us?</h4>

- Port 22 is open running ssh, specifically OpenSSH 6.6.1p1
- Port 53 is open and is a common one that I know I should know about, but I don't know anything about. It seems to be the port for the DNS server. It's a virtual host because it's on the same IP. Ippsec mentions that its odd that it's tcp, usually DNS serves are on UDP. It would be on tcp in cases when the response is greater than 512 bytes, and happens when zone transfers are enabled and in rare cases ipv6.
- Port 80 is open running an Apache 2.4.7 webserver. 

**Gobuster:**
doesn't seem to return anything noteworthy.

**OWASP-ZAP:**
Nothing of note

Watching ippsec he uses a tool called **nslookup** which seems to be a dns lookup website to see if it reveals the hostname, which it unfortunately does not.
In nslookup he goes on to assigning the server as 10.10.10.29 and checking 127.0.0.1 to see the name "localhost" which makes sense.
Nslookup says reverse lookups are not enabled so we get nothing from 10.10.10.29 lookup. 
A reverse lookup according to [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/en-gb/learning/dns/glossary/reverse-dns/) is:

>*"A reverse DNS lookup is a DNS query for the domain name associated with a given IP address. This accomplishes the opposite of the more commonly used forward DNS lookup, in which the DNS system is queried to return an IP address."*

In the end he also just types bank.htb which reveals the hostname. Looking at the official walkthrough it seems that we should be "guessing" the hostname, which is bank.htb. 

He introduces a tool to me called dnsrecon which according to [Kali documentation:](https://www.kali.org/tools/dnsrecon/)

>*"DNSRecon is a Python script that provides the ability to perform:
    Check all NS Records for Zone Transfers.
    Enumerate General DNS Records for a given Domain (MX, SOA, NS, A, AAAA, SPF and TXT).
    Perform common SRV Record Enumeration.
    Top Level Domain (TLD) Expansion.
    Check for Wildcard Resolution.
    Brute Force subdomain and host A and AAAA records given a domain and a wordlist.
    Perform a PTR Record lookup for a given IP Range or CIDR.
    Check a DNS Server Cached records for A, AAAA and CNAME.
    Records provided a list of host records in a text file to check.
    Enumerate Hosts and Subdomains using Google."*


Dnsrecon can be used to enumerate all 127.0.0.0 local range ip within 10.10.10.29. He uses `dnsrecon -r 127.0.0.0/24 -n 10.10.10.29`. This enumerates all values to 255 in the last octet due to the /24. Apparently /16 would include the 2nd to last and /8 would include all octets apart from the first. He also checks for domains on the 10. subnet. Doing so reveals no extra hostnames.

Testing for AXFR with `dig AXFR bank.htb @10.10.10.29"` reveals zone transfer is enabled. Looking at [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNS_zone_transfer):

>*"DNS zone transfer, also sometimes known by the inducing DNS query type AXFR, is a type of DNS transaction. It is one of the many mechanisms available for administrators to replicate DNS databases across a set of DNS servers. A zone transfer uses the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) for transport, and takes the form of a client–server transaction. The client requesting a zone transfer may be a secondary server requesting data from a primary server, historically referred to as master and slave. The portion of the database that is replicated is a zone. "*

And the tool dig is according to  [linux.die.net](https://linux.die.net/man/1/dig) as:

>*"dig (domain information groper) is a flexible tool for interrogating DNS name servers. It performs DNS lookups and displays the answers that are returned from the name server(s) that were queried. Most DNS administrators use dig to troubleshoot DNS problems because of its flexibility, ease of use and clarity of output. Other lookup tools tend to have less functionality than dig."*

```bash
dig AXFR bank.htb @10.10.10.29

; <<>> DiG 9.16.15-Debian <<>> AXFR bank.htb @10.10.10.29
;; global options: +cmd
bank.htb.               604800  IN      SOA     bank.htb. chris.bank.htb. 5 604800 86400 2419200 604800
bank.htb.               604800  IN      NS      ns.bank.htb.
bank.htb.               604800  IN      A       10.10.10.29
ns.bank.htb.            604800  IN      A       10.10.10.29
www.bank.htb.           604800  IN      CNAME   bank.htb.
bank.htb.               604800  IN      SOA     bank.htb. chris.bank.htb. 5 604800 86400 2419200 604800
;; Query time: 16 msec
;; SERVER: 10.10.10.29#53(10.10.10.29)
;; WHEN: Sat Jun 05 12:32:38 EDT 2021
;; XFR size: 6 records (messages 1, bytes 171)
```

Running the dig command reveals subdomains chris.bank.htb, www.bank.htb, ns.bank.htb. To access these we modify our /etc/resolv.conf and include nameserver 10.10.10.29 at the top of the list. Once we've added this to our resolv.conf, we see that entering 10.10.10.29 and bank.htb brings us to 2 different sites. This is as a result of the virtual host routing on port 53 assigning different pages to different `Host:` requests.

<h4>Why resolv.conf?</h4>
When considering why we add to /etc/resolv.conf and not /etc/hosts, I actually have no idea. Looking at forum posts such as [this](https://serverfault.com/questions/118923/difference-between-etc-hosts-and-etc-resolv-conf) the answer seems to be:

>*"**resolv.conf** specifies the nameservers for resolver lookups, where it will actually use the DNS protocol for resolving the hostnames.
Typically the **hosts** file is used for administrative purposes, such as backend and internal functions, which is substantially more isolated in scope, as only the local server will reference it."*

So since there is a DNS server on port 53 we actually know about, we can specify to use that DNS server to lookup hostnames. Instead of just adding to hosts and the hostname being treated as an internal variable.

---
Accessing bank.htb we see a login page, putting this through intercept still leads to the apache page annoyingly. Modifying the header at `Host:` to bank.htb allows us to access the login page through burp repeater. Doing this we see code 302 http redirect code with more code underneath.

Dirbuster: of bank.htb with medium lowercase wordlist shows:
- balance-transfer/
- support.php
- logout.php

<h2>Foothold</h2>

I am way out of my depth with this one so following along with ippsec throughout. 

In the original method he navigates to balance-transfer/ which is an index of a lot of files. He finds the file that is not ~500 bytes like the others and speculates that it may contain the credentials for the chris user we found through AXFR earlier. Which of course it does.
This allows us to login as chris on the bank.htb/ login page. We can now upload a reverse shell into a support ticket at support.php. 
The file we upload has to be in an image format, so ippsec uploads a GIF and then modifies the metadata contents in burp to include our php reverse  shell.
The official walkthrough says that a comment on the support.php page says any file uploaded as .htb is executed as .php so that is one way of getting around the restriction.
Once the shell is submitted we open a listener and the attachment is opened. We catch our reverse shell and find the user flag at home/chris/user.txt. 

In an alternative method he seems to replace the 302 redirect in the header to 200 OK with match and replace in burpsuite. Then navigating to support.php we don't get redirected to the login page due to modifying the 302 to 200 which means the page is ok to load. From here we upload a reverse php shell in the same rules as above.
Also the REGEX (LEARN REGEX PLEASE FUTURE ME) expression that modifies the code in burpsuite match and replace is "30[12] FOUND" to signify replacing either 301 or 302.

<h2>Privilege Escalation</h2>

`wget linenum.sh` into /dev/sh and running `bash linenum.sh` works but `./linenum.sh` doesn't? We see that like the tag suggests there is an interesting SUID owned by root in `/var/htb/bin/emergency` running this gives us a root shell and we can find the root flag at /root/root.txt. Perhaps a backdoor? 

<h4>For next time:</h4>

- If you see a DNS server on tcp, lookout for zone transfer and pull out `dig AXFR`
- You've done a lot of these boxes, don't forget to look at page source comments every now and then.
- You can't run `./linenum.sh` but you can run `bash linenum.sh` because you forgot to the script as executable. Oops.
- 