---
title: "Access HTB"
date: 2021-09-03T17:30:30
categories:
  - study
tags:
  - Windows
  - FTP
  - Microsoft Access
  - Clear Text Credentials
classes: wide
---
Access is a retired windows box released on the 30th of September 2018 on the HacktheBox platform. It is easy rated and it can be found [here.](https://app.hackthebox.com/machines/access)
Synopsis from the official writeup:

>*Access is an "easy" difficulty machine, that highlights how machines associated with the physical
security of an environment may not themselves be secure. Also highlighted is how accessible
FTP/file shares often lead to getting a foothold or lateral movement. It teaches techniques for
identifying and exploiting saved credentials.*

<h2> Enumeration</h2>
**Nmap scan results:**

```
21/tcp open  ftp     syn-ack Microsoft ftpd
| ftp-anon: Anonymous FTP login allowed (FTP code 230)
|_Can't get directory listing: PASV failed: 425 Cannot open data connection.
| ftp-syst: 
|_  SYST: Windows_NT
23/tcp open  telnet? syn-ack
80/tcp open  http    syn-ack Microsoft IIS httpd 7.5
| http-methods: 
|   Supported Methods: OPTIONS TRACE GET HEAD POST
|_  Potentially risky methods: TRACE
|_http-server-header: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
|_http-title: MegaCorp
Service Info: OS: Windows; CPE: cpe:/o:microsoft:windows
```

<h4>What is the scan telling us?</h4>

- Port 21 FTP allows for Anonymous login, this is where I will attempt for a foothold first.
- Port 23 is a weird one, telnet?

Navigating to the website we see LON-MC6 in big letters and an image called `out.jpg` that seems to be a picture of a server.
Page source mentions DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional as well as "MegaCorp".

<h2>Foothold</h2>

Since we can anonymous login with ftp we start there, inside we see a directory called backups, inside we see `backup.mdb` which is a Microsoft Access database file.
There is also another folder called engineers, in which we see a zip called access control.zip. Strings it shows a `.pst` file inside, I have never heard of this file format. According to [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_Storage_Table):

>*In computing, a personal storage table (PST) is a proprietary file format built by Microsoft to store copies of messages, calendar events, and other items within their software platforms, including Microsoft Exchange Client, Windows Messaging, and Microsoft Outlook.*

We obtain both of these files by first setting the type to binary transfer. We can use `mdb-tools` prepackaged with kali to dump the contents of the database. But first we have to determine which table we are interested in, we do this by running `mdb-tables backup.mdb | grep --color=auto user` .

We have now set to highlight for user credentials. Once we do this we see a table called `auth_user`. 
We use `mdb-export backup.mdb auth_user` to read the contents of the table, from here we see:

```
id,username,password,Status,last_login,RoleID,Remark
25,"admin","admin",1,"08/23/18 21:11:47",26,
warning: row_size = 0.
27,"engineer","access4u@security",1,"08/23/18 21:13:36",26,
28,"backup_admin","admin",1,"08/23/18 21:14:02",26,
```

Which gives us 3 credentials to try, `admin:admin`, `engineer:access4u@security` and `backup_admin:admin`. We don't seem to be able to unzip the access control zip file with unzip. However with `7z` we can! Running `7z x Access\ control.zip` and giving the password `access4u@security` unzips the file. From here we have our `.pst` file, which we open with `readpst`. We see the following email: 

```
Hi there,                   
                                                          
                                               
                                                          
The password for the “security” account has been changed to 4Cc3ssC0ntr0ller.  Please ensure this is passed on to your engineers.
                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Regards,                                      
                                                          
John
```

These credentials do not seem to be for ftp as they are not valid, however they are valid with telnet. Up to this point I have not seen telnet, according to [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Telnet) it is:

> *an application protocol used on the Internet or local area network to provide a bidirectional interactive text-oriented communication facility using a virtual terminal connection.*

We install telnet on our VM and then run `telnet 10.10.10.98` and use the credentials `security:4Cc3ssC0ntr0ller` we found in the `.pst` file. We now have a basic shell as access/security. From here we navigate to security's desktop and find the user flag.



<h2>Privilege Escalation</h2>

Being completely stuck here it's time to check a variety of writeups as well as ippsec. From here it seems that one port of call for PrivEsc is to run `cmdkey /list` as follows:

```
C:\Users\security\Desktop> cmdkey /list

Currently stored credentials:

    Target: Domain:interactive=ACCESS\Administrator
                                                       Type: Domain Password
    User: ACCESS\Administrator
```

We see that the password for the Administrator account is saved.

Since these credentials are saved, we can use `runas` to run `cmd` as Administrator:

```
runas /user:ACCESS\Administrator /savecred "cmd.exe /c type c:\users\administrator\desktop\root.txt > C:\Users\security\AppData\Local\Temp\root.txt"
```
The command will read the `root.txt` file and copy it to `security` user's temp folder. We navigate to the specified temp directory and find the root flag!

An alternate method involves using [Nishang](https://github.com/samratashok/nishang). Nishang is a framework and collection of scripts for offensive use of powershell. The other methods that have been used which I will leave on the list to study another day involve DPAPI abuse and mimikatz.


<h4>For next time:</h4>

- Use binary transfer mode where possible on ftp to ensure uncorrupted files.
- `mdb-tools` for Microsoft Access database files.
- `readpst` to read `.pst` files.
- You can run `cmdkey /list` on windows to see if any credentials happened to be saved due to `runas /savecred`.
- `runas` is like `sudo` for Windows.
- In the command used to copy the root.txt, `cmd.exe /c`, the /c means: Carries out the command specified by string and then terminates.
- Understand the DPAPI abuse and mimikatz methods of PrivEsc.


**More details on `runas /savecred` gathered from a [forum](https://superuser.com/questions/581548/runas-savecred-ask-for-password-if-another-user-runs-the-same-batch-file):**

**(Asker)** I have a script in which I have used runas /savecred. First time it asked me for password. Later on it didn't ask me and it was working fine. But if another user logs on to the same server and runs the same script its asking him to enter the password.
How can I make the password to be stored for any user who kicks off that batch file.

**(Response)**The short answer: DO NOT DO THIS. You're only going to open your system to a HUGE, and I do mean HUGE system security flaw: Once you /savecred, you're saving your admin password to the users profile, UNCONDITIONALLY, for them to use any time, any way they like. That means, once saved, they can launch a console window (CMD prompt), type in "runas /savecred /user:administrator cmd.exe" and instantly launch a new command console with full admin rights to do anything they want. You probably do not want them to be able to do this!
