---
title: "Lame"
date: 2021-05-17T17:30:30
categories:
  - blog
  - study
tags:
  - Linux
  - HacktheBox
  - Injection
  - CMS Exploit
classes: wide
---
<h2> Enumeration</h2>
nmap:

```
21/tcp   open  ftp         syn-ack ttl 63 vsftpd 2.3.4
22/tcp   open  ssh         syn-ack ttl 63 OpenSSH 4.7p1 Debian 8ubuntu1 (protocol 2.0)
139/tcp  open  netbios-ssn syn-ack ttl 63 Samba smbd 3.X - 4.X (workgroup: WORKGROUP)
445/tcp  open  netbios-ssn syn-ack ttl 63 Samba smbd 3.X - 4.X (workgroup: WORKGROUP)
3632/tcp open  distccd     syn-ack ttl 63 distccd v1 ((GNU) 4.2.4 (Ubuntu 4.2.4-1ubuntu4))
```
<h4>What is the scan telling us?</h4>
- Port 21/tcp is open, and running File Transfer Protocol (ftp) service. Specifically vsftp 2.3.4 which is "an FTP server for Unix-like systems"
- Netbios-ssn which stands for Network Basic Input/Output System Session service. It seems samba is running ontop of netbio-ssn in the form of an smbd — server to provide SMB/Common Internet File System(CIFS) services, basically filesharing. smbd is running on top of Netbios because Netbios is simply the transfer layer that allows local networking. Samba is a re-implementation of the Server Message Block (SMB) networking protocol.
- distccd = distributed C/C++ compiler server, according to https://linux.die.net/man/1/distccd: distccd is the server for the distcc(1) distributed compiler. It accepts and runs compilation jobs for network clients.  
- Since we don't see a webserver there's no need to run dirbuster or tools such as nikto. 

From here we attempt to exploit these services, anonymous login as ftp is successful but no files are contained inside the directory.
Similarly, Smb anonymous login only allows access to /tmp, there doesn't seem to be anything interesting in it.

After being stuck, using searchsploit to find vulnerabilities for each service and version shows numerous exploits. However Samba 3.x seems easiest [Samba 3.0.20 < 3.0.25rc3 - 'Username' map script' Command Execution][https://www.rapid7.com/db/modules/exploit/multi/samba/usermap_script/] (Metasploit) explains that the module:
> *"exploits a command execution vulnerability in Samba versions 3.0.20 through 3.0.25rc3 when using the non-default "username map script" configuration option. By specifying a username containing shell meta characters, attackers can execute arbitrary commands."*

The relevent CVE is [CVE-2007-2447][https://www.samba.org/samba/security/CVE-2007-2447.html] which details that:
> *The rootcause is passing unfiltered user input provided via MS-RPC calls to /bin/sh when invoking externals scripts defined in smb.conf.
Meaning that when "username map script" config is enabled a username containing shell metacharacters, which are symbols used in shell scripts can be passed straight to /bin/sh shell. Allowing for Remote Code Execution(RCE). In this case a reverse shell.*

<h2>Foothold</h2>
Our research leads us to fire up metasploit.
exploit/multi/samba/usermap_script is the one we're using, inputting the options required. This immediately provides me with root permissions, negating the need for a Privilege Escalation. I search for user and root .txt files with:

```bash
find / -name "user.txt" 2>/dev/null
/home/makis/user.txt
```

```bash
find / -name "root.txt" 2>/dev/null
/root/root.txt
```
We read both these files with cat to obtain their respective flags. 

<h4>For next time:</h4>
- Modify nmap scan parameters to include detection of anonymous login possibility.
- Using searchsploit, browsing exploitdb, or simply googling each service port open can reveal vulnerabilities.  

