---
title: "Netmon HTB"
date: 2021-08-24T17:30:30
categories:
  - study
tags:
  - Windows
  - HacktheBox
  - Powershell
  - File Misconfiguration
classes: wide
---
Netmon is an easy rated windows box from HTB released in 2019. Check it out right [here!](https://app.hackthebox.eu/machines/Netmon/)

<h2> Enumeration</h2>
**Nmap scan results:**

```
21/tcp    open  ftp          syn-ack Microsoft ftpd
| ftp-anon: Anonymous FTP login allowed (FTP code 230)
| 02-03-19  12:18AM                 1024 .rnd
| 02-25-19  10:15PM       <DIR>          inetpub
| 07-16-16  09:18AM       <DIR>          PerfLogs
| 02-25-19  10:56PM       <DIR>          Program Files
| 02-03-19  12:28AM       <DIR>          Program Files (x86)
| 02-03-19  08:08AM       <DIR>          Users
|_02-25-19  11:49PM       <DIR>          Windows
| ftp-syst: 
|_  SYST: Windows_NT
80/tcp  open  http         Indy httpd 18.1.37.13946 (Paessler PRTG bandwidth monitor)
|_http-server-header: PRTG/18.1.37.13946
| http-title: Welcome | PRTG Network Monitor (NETMON)
|_Requested resource was /index.htm
|_http-trane-info: Problem with XML parsing of /evox/about
135/tcp   open  msrpc        syn-ack Microsoft Windows RPC
139/tcp   open  netbios-ssn  syn-ack Microsoft Windows netbios-ssn
445/tcp   open  microsoft-ds syn-ack Microsoft Windows Server 2008 R2 - 2012 microsoft-ds
5985/tcp  open  http         syn-ack Microsoft HTTPAPI httpd 2.0 (SSDP/UPnP)
|_http-server-header: Microsoft-HTTPAPI/2.0
47001/tcp open  http         syn-ack Microsoft HTTPAPI httpd 2.0 (SSDP/UPnP)
|_http-server-header: Microsoft-HTTPAPI/2.0
49664/tcp open  msrpc        syn-ack Microsoft Windows RPC
49665/tcp open  msrpc        syn-ack Microsoft Windows RPC
49666/tcp open  msrpc        syn-ack Microsoft Windows RPC
49667/tcp open  msrpc        syn-ack Microsoft Windows RPC
49668/tcp open  msrpc        syn-ack Microsoft Windows RPC
49669/tcp open  msrpc        syn-ack Microsoft Windows RPC
Service Info: OSs: Windows, Windows Server 2008 R2 - 2012; CPE: cpe:/o:microsoft:windows
```

Navigating to the website on Port 80 we see a login for **PRTG Network Monitor(NETMON)**. Trying default credentials from googling around doesn't get me in.

<h4>What is the scan telling us?</h4>

- Port 21 is running ftp, specifically Microsoft ftpd.
- Port 80 is running Paessler PRTG bandwidth monitor
- Port 135, 49664, 49665, 49666, 49667, 49668, 49669 is running Microsoft Windows RPC.
- Port 139 would be the old SMB protocol running over netbios-ssn.
- Port 445 is running microsoft-ds with Windows Server 2008 R2 - 2012 this is the modern version of SMB running over the tcp stack
- Port 5985, 47001 is running Microsoft HTTPAPI which according to [Microsoft](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/http/http-api-start-page): *"The HTTP Server API enables applications to communicate over HTTP without using Microsoft Internet Information Server (IIS). Applications can register to receive HTTP requests for particular URLs, receive HTTP requests, and send HTTP responses. The HTTP Server API includes SSL support so that applications can exchange data over secure HTTP connections without IIS. It is also designed to work with I/O completion ports."* and is commonly associated with windows remote management, or WinRM. Similar to SSH.

<h4>What is RPC?</h4>

The internet lets me know that RPC is Remote Procedure Call, according to [this site:](https://searchapparchitecture.techtarget.com/definition/Remote-Procedure-Call-RPC) 

> *"Remote Procedure Call (RPC) is a protocol that one program can use to request a service from a program located in another computer in a network without having to understand network details. (A procedure call is also sometimes known as a function call or a subroutine call.) RPC uses the client/server model. The requesting program is a client and the service-providing program is the server. Like a regular or local procedure call, an RPC is a synchronous operation requiring the requesting program to be suspended until the results of the remote procedure are returned. However, the use of lightweight processes or threads that share the same address space allows multiple RPCs to be performed concurrently."*

So it appears to be a way for programs on windows to request services or data from other programs in a network without much complication. 

<h4>More details on ports 139/445</h4>

The topic of port 139 and 445 running microsoft-ds vs netbios-ssn and microsoft ds having Microsoft Server 2008 with it was just very confusing when I know they are SMB ports. After an hour of reading the best explanation I could find was on the [superuser forum](https://superuser.com/questions/694469/difference-between-netbios-and-smb) which says:

>*"while netbios-ssn simply provides the NetBIOS API, including NBT (NetBIOS over TCP/IP) via port 139. On the other hand, microsoft-ds provides the direct hosting of SMB via port 445.*

It is not necessary for both ports to be open/services to be running, but you achieve the greatest SMB communication capability with them both.

<h2>Foothold</h2>

Since FTP allows for anonymous login we start there to see what we can find. Logging in and snooping around, we quickly see that we are free to navigate to the user folders, we find the user flag at `desktop/public/user.txt`.

<h2>Privilege Escalation</h2>

Looking around further after the FTP anonymous login we see PRTG Network Monitor files in program files. PRTG is not only not a pre-installed program, the website revealed it as `NETMON` for NETwork MONitor, which is the name of the box... This looks like a good place to find escalation. According to their user manual, logs are stored in `programdata/Paessler`. 
We navigate to that directory and try to grab the config files to see if there are any credentials in there.
```
02-25-19  10:54PM              1189697 PRTG Configuration.dat
02-25-19  10:54PM              1198465 PRTG Configuration.old
07-14-18  03:13AM              1153755 PRTG Configuration.old.bak
```
Inside PRTG Configuration.old.bak we see:

```  
<!-- User: prtgadmin --> PrTg@dmin2018
```
Navigating to http://10.10.10.152 we see a login page that doesn't accept those credentials, however changing `PrTg@dmin2018` to `PrTg@dmin2019` lets us right in.

We see that version 18.1.37.13946 of PRTG System Administrator is installed immediately on the main panel `/welcome.htm`. Googling this version for exploits we see [this](https://github.com/wildkindcc/CVE-2018-9276) python script to exploit [CVE-2018-9276](https://www.exploit-db.com/exploits/46527).

CVE-2018-9276's details can be found [here](https://packetstormsecurity.com/files/148334/PRTG-Command-Injection.html). Reading the explanation by Josh Berry they explain that:

>*"The PowerShell notifications demo script on versions of the application prior to 18.2.39 do not properly sanitize input in the Parameter field.  The web application provides a security control around running executables/scripts as part of a notification, but the demo PowerShell script contains a command injection vulnerability."*

So the demo script used to demonstrate what notifications might look like on PRTG network monitor does not sanitize user input. Meaning we can add commands in to the Parameter field to execute what we'd like. This example Josh gives is:

>*"the following value can be passed in the Parameter
field, resulting in the creation of a test account named pentest:
              Test.txt;net user pentest p3nT3st! /add*"

So the python script I found on Github operates on these assumptions:

- Target machine is Windows.
- Defender / Applocker is not running.
- Outbound SMB access is permitted.

And the author notes that *"Payload delivery is essentially smb_delivery"*. Referring to the [metasploit module](https://www.rapid7.com/db/modules/exploit/windows/smb/smb_delivery/). Reading the Github and the Rapid7 explanation of smb_delivery it seems that the script works by the user entering the, RPORT, RHOST, admin credentials for the PRTG panel, as well as LHOST and LPORT. The script then generates a reverse shell `.dll` file with msfvenom, opens a Netcat listener, uses Impacket to host a SMB server and adds commands in the PRTG demo parameter field to download and execute the .dll from our Impacket SMB server. Once executed the shell is sent to our specified IP and port and we catch the shell in our NC listener.

The .dll is executed by `rundll32.exe` which according to [Microsoft]:(https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/rundll32)

>*"Loads and runs 32-bit dynamic-link libraries (DLLs). There are no configurable settings for Rundll32. Help information is provided for a specific DLL you run with the rundll32 command. **You must run the rundll32 command from an elevated command prompt**"*

Which explains why running this script successfully gives us a system shell. 

We follow the instructions on the Github page and executing the script gives us a NT/authority shell right away. We find the flag on the administrator's desktop.

<h4>For next time:</h4>

- Make sure to search through program files and determine what is installed and what versions. There could be some easy vulns there.
- Think about how passwords with dates might change, 2018>2019 seems obvious but could easily be missed.
- Sudo -E lets you maintain environment variables while sudo, otherwise the program you run sudo runs based on the env variables of /etc/sudoers. Was important when trying to run the python script sudo with variables. 