---
title: "Blue HTB"
date: 2021-08-14T17:30:30
categories:
  - study
tags:
  - Windows
  - Patch Management
  - EternalBlue
classes: wide
---
Blue is a windows box from HacktheBox that was released in 2017. The official writeup synopsis is:

> *"Blue, while possibly the most simple machine on Hack The Box, demonstrates the severity of the 
EternalBlue exploit, which has been used in multiple large-scale ransomware and crypto-mining 
attacks since it was leaked publicly."*

Find it [here.][htbboxlink]

[htbboxlink]: https://app.hackthebox.eu/machines/Blue

<h2> Enumeration</h2>
**Nmap scan results:**

```
135/tcp   open  msrpc        syn-ack Microsoft Windows RPC
139/tcp   open  netbios-ssn  syn-ack Microsoft Windows netbios-ssn
445/tcp   open  microsoft-ds syn-ack Windows 7 Professional 7601 Service Pack 1 microsoft-ds (workgroup: WORKGROUP)
49152/tcp open  msrpc        syn-ack Microsoft Windows RPC
49153/tcp open  msrpc        syn-ack Microsoft Windows RPC
49154/tcp open  msrpc        syn-ack Microsoft Windows RPC
49155/tcp open  msrpc        syn-ack Microsoft Windows RPC
49156/tcp open  msrpc        syn-ack Microsoft Windows RPC
49157/tcp open  msrpc        syn-ack Microsoft Windows RPC
Service Info: Host: HARIS-PC; OS: Windows; CPE: cpe:/o:microsoft:windows
```

<h4>What is the scan telling us?</h4>

- Port 22 is open running ssh, specifically OpenSSH 6.6.1p1
- 135, 4915x..etc are running Remote Procedure Call(RPC).
- Port 139, and 445 are the usual SMB over netbios-ssn and microsoft-ds. Box is called blue, Windows 7 Service Pack 1, think we know where this is going. 
- PC is named HARIS-PC

<h2>Foothold</h2>

Opened Metasploit loaded up [exploit/windows/smb/ms17_010_eternalblue](https://www.rapid7.com/db/modules/exploit/windows/smb/ms17_010_eternalblue/), default payload is [windows/x64/meterpreter/reverse_tcp](https://www.rapid7.com/db/modules/payload/windows/x64/meterpreter/reverse_tcp/) set the relevant options, type `exploit`. . 
User flag found in haris user desktop which we assumed from the computer name.

<h2>Privilege Escalation</h2>
Type getsystem:

```
meterpreter > getsystem
...got system via technique 1 (Named Pipe Impersonation (In Memory/Admin)).
meterpreter > shell
Process 1820 created.
Channel 1 created.
Microsoft Windows [Version 6.1.7601]
Copyright (c) 2009 Microsoft Corporation.  All rights reserved.

C:\Windows\system32>whoami
whoami
nt authority\system
```

...and our privs are escalated.
Administrator flag found in administrator desktop.

<h2>What's happening?</h2>
So that was a very quick process, all in all it took maybe 2 minutes of actual time. So lets analyze what's actually going on here.

Firstly I had heard of EternalBlue or MS17-010(name of the Microsoft patch) from the Darknet Diaries [episode 53](https://darknetdiaries.com/transcript/53/) originally. Then as I continued to read into the history of cybersecurity and the largest most influential exploits and attacks, the name EternalBlue was always present. Wannacry, Petya, NotPetya... But how does it work here?

Reading from [Avast](https://www.avast.com/c-eternalblue):

>*"The exploit makes use of the way Microsoft Windows(SMBv1) handles, or rather mishandles, specially crafted packets from malicious attackers. All the attacker needs to do is send a maliciously-crafted packet to the target server, and, boom, the malware propagates and a cyberattack ensues."*

[Exploitdb](https://www.exploit-db.com/exploits/41891) lists the CVE's of MS17-010 as:

- 2017-0143 
- 2017-0144 
- 2017-0145 
- 2017-0146
- 2017-0147
- 2017-0148

The details of EternalBlue and these exploits seem like they could be their own entire post. [Trendmicro](https://www.trendmicro.com/en_us/research/17/f/ms17-010-eternalblue.html) has a great breakdown of the exact process. It seems to involve a *"Buffer Overflow in SRV Driver"* that through a LONG chain allows for RCE. 

In this case using the metasploit module the code payload to be executed is a Meterpreter reverse shell: [windows/x64/meterpreter/reverse_tcp](https://www.rapid7.com/db/modules/payload/windows/x64/meterpreter/reverse_tcp/). According to the [Rapid7 Github](https://github.com/rapid7/metasploit-framework/blob/master/documentation/modules/payload/windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp.md):

>*"windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp is one of the most powerful features the Metasploit Framework has to offer... It allows you to remotely control the file system, sniff, keylog, hashdump, perform network pivoting, control the webcam and microphone, etc. It has the best support for post modules, and you can load extensions, such as mimikatz and python interpreter, etc."*

So running the EternalBlue module with a Meterpreter payload gives us a Meterpreter shell that allows us to run the script `getsystem`. In this case the script that Meterpreter successfully executes to give us a system shell is `technique 1 (Named Pipe Impersonation (In Memory/Admin)).` According to the Github [script](https://github.com/rapid7/metasploit-payloads/blob/master/c/meterpreter/source/extensions/priv/namedpipe.c):

>*"Elevate from local admin to local system via Named Pipe Impersonation. We spawn a cmd.exe under local system which then connects to our named pipe and we impersonate this client. This can be done by an Administrator without the need for SeDebugPrivilege.  Works on 2000, XP, 2003 and 2008 for all local administrators. On Vista and 7 it will only work if the host process has been elevated through UAC first."*

Piped clients? Impersonation? I'm honestly still confused so we first check the Microsoft documentation on [Named Pipes](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/ipc/named-pipes): 

>*"A named pipe is a named, one-way or duplex pipe for communication between the pipe server and one or more pipe clients. All instances of a named pipe share the same pipe name, but each instance has its own buffers and handles, and provides a separate conduit for client/server communication... Any process can access named pipes, subject to security checks, making named pipes an easy form of communication between related or unrelated processes."*

So Named pipes are ways for processes to communicate, running a client/server model.

Next we see what Microsoft's explanation of ["Impersonating a Named Pipe Client"](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/ipc/impersonating-a-named-pipe-client):

>*"Impersonation is the ability of a thread to execute in a security context different from that of the process that owns the thread. Impersonation enables the server thread to perform actions on behalf of the client, but within the limits of the client's security context...For example, a named pipe server can provide access to a database or file system to which the pipe server has privileged access. When a pipe client sends a request to the server, the server impersonates the client and attempts to access the protected database. The system then grants or denies the server's access, based on the security level of the client."*

I'm still a little confused so I google around a little more and find [this](https://blog.cobaltstrike.com/2014/04/02/what-happens-when-i-type-getsystem/) explanation from CobaltStrike:

>*"Technique 1 creates a named pipe from Meterpreter. It also creates and runs a service that runs cmd.exe /c echo “some data” >\\.\pipe\[random pipe here]. When the spawned cmd.exe connects to Meterpreter’s named pipe, Meterpreter has the opportunity to impersonate that security context. Impersonation of clients is a named pipes feature. The context of the service is SYSTEM, so when you impersonate it, you become SYSTEM."*

So when I run `getsystem` on Meterpreter on an exploitable box, the script creates a Meterpreter side cmd.exe named pipe, then uses the RCE gained earlier to spawn cmd.exe on the victim box. And then connect the two cmd.exe processes through a Named pipe, with Meterpreter being pipe client and the victim's cmd.exe being pipe server. 

The pipe server has SYSTEM access therefore our impersonated pipe client has also. This process escalates our privileges, allowing us to read from the admin desktop. 

I'm not even certain my understanding is accurate... This is probably going to have to be a topic I come back to.

That is a lot of tech, research and development behind 2 minutes of script running.

<h4>For next time:</h4>

- Read more about EternalBlue in depth analysis. 
- Write a post for it specifically, making sure you really understand Meterpreter and `getsystem`.
- Attempt to exploit this box without Metasploit, according to the HTB writeup this is possible with [this](https://github.com/worawit/MS17-010) script.
